Previously on "The Vampire Diaries"...
I want you compel to forget
that I ever loved him.
- Who is Damon Salvatore.
- He was a monster.
- Where the hell are we?
- 1994.
We're never getting out.
There's someone else here.
To get home we'll harness
the power of the eclipse
using a mystical relic.
It's called an ascendant.
[Thwap]
Unh!
Forgetting someone?
Aah!
I'm back.
I know what Alaric is. I know what you are.
You're a witch.
Wait. You're from Mystic Falls?
Born and raised. One of the
founding families actually.
Stefan could have told me
there was a hunter in town.
- Elena: I want my memories back.
- Wait. What?
I want Alaric to uncompel me.
Alaric!
[Gasps]
I'm not supposed to be alive.
Alaric's not a vampire anymore, Elena.
He's human.
There's a girl you need to go see.
[Knocking on door]
Ok. I'll start.
I know Alaric "eternal sunshined"
our relationship out of your brain,
but please, please tell me it's coming back
or at least part of it because imagining
this exact moment is what got
me through the last few months.
I'm not sure what to say.
Easy, so easy. Just say
that you missed me as much as I missed you.
I remember... pain.
I remember all the
terrible things that you did
to the people that I care about.
I honestly don't remember
anything good between us.
I thought if I saw you in person it might
change everything, but...
Maybe you just need a little more time.
Damon, I know that I loved you.
Yeah.
And I know that apparently I forgave you
for all of the awful things that you did.
Yeah.
But I just don't remember it.
I'm sorry. I...
I just don't...
Feel it anymore.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
I'm, uh... ahem.
Damon, I... I really am sorry.
Uh...
Alaric: Hey. I really
don't think you should be
playing with all that stuff.
Keep going. We are on a roll.
All the terrible things I did to people
that Elena cared about. Let's see.
I turned Caroline into my own
personal blood juice box,
I turned Matt's sister into a vampire
and threatened to kill
Bon-Bon a couple times.
More than a couple.
Subjective. Sometimes, I was being funny.
And you killed Stefan's best friend
at his birthday party.
Unfortunate coincidence.
And then you snapped Jeremy's neck
when Elena said she'd never love you.
On second thought, let's focus on all
the charming, heroic things
you obliterated from my girl's mind.
God, if I could take it all back, I would.
I know.
And listen. Despite the fact
that my long list of dastardly deeds
involves killing you,
I'm glad you're alive.
- Thanks, man.
- Yeah.
Unh!
Although had you actually died a vampire
instead of becoming human again,
your compulsion would have gone away,
and Elena would be mine again.
Hey. Really heartfelt. Appreciate it.
Now she's stuck with only evil me memories
forever and ever.
If you kill me, I am
dead for good this time.
You remember that.
[Monitor flatlining]
Good morning.
Hey. I don't know if this is a good time.
Just a heads-up, Doc.
You're gonna be in real high demand
with a bunch of vampires
who want to be human again
if you could repeat
that little healing trick
that you did at the
border with Ric last night.
Well, just a heads-up,
but saving Alaric's life was a matter
of a treatable death wound,
perfect timing, and fear of losing
the most interesting guy I've
dated in a while adrenaline.
100% unrepeatable, which
is why you will tell no one.
- She's bossy.
- Mm-hmm.
I like her.
Ugh.
Do you have a nice suit
and a clean pair of socks?
Uh, yeah, I think so.
Good. I'm releasing you.
Hospital fundraiser's tonight.
I'm making the interns
go, so I need a date.
Start your paperwork.
Hello again. That was quite a mess
you made at the border last night.
Hit-and-run. Tsk, tsk, tsk.
Good thing Matt here
was in the neighborhood
to give you a ride home.
You brought me here?
You went after my
friends. What'd you expect?
Your friends who kill people.
Stefan: Come on, Enzo. Ask
him what you want to know.
Let's get this over with.
Stefan has already made
a very passionate argument
in favor of snapping your neck,
whereas in a surprising role reversal,
I've opted for the
let's think this through,
get all the information
before we kill him method.
Don't be a dick. You know, you can
dry the vervain out of him,
compel him to forget everything,
and he'll never set foot
in Mystic Falls again.
You don't really think he's
a one-man vampire busting
operation, do you?
Look. While Tripp tortured me
for the names of your friends,
I had a front-row seat to
quite a few urgent phone calls
and visits from mysterious right-hand men,
many of whom were wearing uniforms
not dissimilar to the one
you've been traipsing around in.
I'd just like to know what they're up to
while he's here with us.
Aah! Aah.
They're doing the same thing they were
when they were with me.
They're tracking vampires like
your friend Caroline Forbes.
Take two hours, get the names of his men
and what they know.
After that, he's a
liability. Get rid of him.
You didn't feel anything?
I felt scared and guilty,
and his eyes were really,
really blue and pretty,
but... no.
I don't remember loving him.
So you don't remember. So be it.
That's your advice?
Well, Elena, look at your life right now.
You're doing well in school,
you're following your dreams,
you met Liam, who also
has very pretty eyes,
not mention he's never killed your brother.
True.
I mean, I just gave Stefan the friend boot.
Maybe a little break from
the Salvatore brothers
is in the cards for the both of us.
Look. McDreamy's coming. I got to go.
- See you later.
- Bye.
So guess who came into the hospital
for a shoulder arthroscopy this morning.
Hello to you, too.
Lady Whitmore, the girl from the bonfire,
the one you miraculously
saved from certain death
and I can't figure out how.
Turns out she was here
on a tennis scholarship
before she blew out her arm last year.
Now she needs to get
her cartilage cleaned out
every 6 months.
You're still obsessing over that.
But here's the crazy part.
She doesn't remember getting hurt
in the corn maze crash.
Wow! She must have been really drunk.
I'm gonna take a look at her labs,
see if she's not an alien
or a super soldier or something.
Heh heh.
When do volunteers have
access to the patient labs?
Since never, but if you rat me out,
you can't be my date to the
hospital fundraiser tonight.
Yeah? Well, we have to go.
Jo said that it's mandatory.
Doesn't mean it can't still be a date.
[Sighs]
[Metal rattling]
Kai: Oh. Look who's awake.
How do you feel?
Like you shot me with an arrow.
Right. Anyhoo, I have no idea
how you managed to shatter the ascendant
into a billion pieces,
but we need to put it together
before the eclipse at 12:28.
You want to help? I know
you're a puzzle person.
I don't want to help. You're a psychopath.
This place is your prison.
I'm not letting you out.
Besides, you'll just kill
me the minute we get out.
You've been through a trauma.
Your memory's probably
a little fuzzy right now,
so you might be thinking that
your magic will protect you,
but all I have to do is hold your hand,
and your magic suddenly becomes mine.
What was that? Huh? What?
You're gonna do the spell
and finally get us home?
Agh!
[Knock on door]
- That's weird.
- What's weird?
None of your business.
We're not friends anymore,
which means you can't just show up
unannounced at my door. Good-bye.
Hey, Caroline. Look. You're not safe.
Tripp's men still have your name.
So, what? You here to protect me?
News flash! I don't need your protection,
and more importantly, I don't want it.
[Cell phone rings]
Hey, mom. Can I call you back?
I'm trying to get a piece
of gum off of my shoe.
Actually, honey, this can't wait.
Do you have any idea
where Tripp Cook might be?
Tripp? No. I have no idea. Why?
Because one of his men
just ran me off the road,
and they're gonna kill me
if they don't get him back.
Caroline: Answer your phone, Enzo!
I just... I didn't call
her today, you know?
I always call my mom
every Saturday morning,
but, no, today, I said, "screw it.
"I want to sleep in.
I'll do it tomorrow."
Well, don't worry. We're almost there.
We're almost there?
You said, two hours and then kill him."
Do you even remember how
long ago you said that?
I mean, what kind of
person sets a ticking clock
without setting his watch?
[Cell phone rings]
Tell me that Tripp is still alive.
Tripp is still alive,
surprisingly torture-resistant but alive.
[Sighs]
What took you so long to answer your phone?
My fingers were covered in blood,
and the touchscreen wouldn't work.
Just don't kill him, ok?
One of his guys took my mom,
so just keep your hands off of him
so I can get her back, ok?
Enzo, please.
I thought I could make
the world a better place
by getting rid of them,
teach kids like you to be
strong, defend yourselves,
but look at you.
- You're on the wrong side.
- I'm not on the wrong side, man.
My side's just really freaking complicated.
[Door opens]
Enzo: Update. Tripp's henchmen kidnapped
the sheriff of Mystic Falls.
What?
It's a contingency plan in case
anything ever happened to me.
That's your idea of
being on the right side?
You can set the meet for the
edge of town of old Miller road.
You can do the trade there.
They know they'll be
safe behind the border.
And send Matt.
They trust him.
Antibiotics.
Painkillers.
Unh.
An hour and 43 minutes.
I can do this.
[Music playing]
Ahh. Ohh!
Seriously?
You don't know how to
fill a champagne glass?
I never said I was a professional.
First and most obvious rule,
they all have to be even
and no slopping over the sides.
Thank you.
For what, not firing you?
I'm not even paying you.
For letting me try to repay you.
I killed someone so that you wouldn't
trigger your werewolf curse,
and you think that being
my bar back for a night
is enough to repay me?
Honestly, I'd rather
chain myself up in a cellar
and turn every month than
have to wear this lame-ass tie.
Which isn't straight.
You should take some
pride in your appearance.
So what are you, the guest
of honor or something?
I won an award for a battlefield
medical clamp I patented.
Whitmore likes to trot me out
when they want to raise money.
So basically, you're a genius.
Or she has a witchy advantage.
What, supposed to be a
secret that she's a witch?
I don't practice, so no witchy advantage,
just a lot of hard work. Who invited him?
He sort of invited himself,
mostly to stalk Elena.
Oh, don't be cynical.
I'm here to spend some quality time
with my once dead, now human best bud.
[Door opens]
[Music playing]
Who's that?
That would be Liam Davis,
valedictorian, straight a's freshman year
taking junior-level classes,
not to mention medical royalty.
Not so bad on the eyes either.
Looks like he's Elena's date.
Did I say I liked you?
I meant the opposite.
You know those things are rigged, right?
Is that another one of
your conspiracy theories?
Super soldiers take over the world
to carry out vicious fundraising schemes?
Well, when you say it like
that, I sound like a loser.
When I win my trip to Fiji,
you don't have to come.
Oh.
Ok. Maybe you can come.
- Can you grab us a couple drinks?
- Sure.
Sorry. I didn't know that you were here.
Hey. Wine or beer?
You know, um, it doesn't
matter, whatever you want.
Hi. Damon Salvatore, Elena's
ex. Nice to meet you...
- Liam.
- Wait. Damon?
- Damon.
As in the ex who died?
Right. Yeah, um, that is what I...
What I told you.
Obviously, that's not true.
It's a figure of speech. It's
more kind of an emotional death.
You know, it was a very messy breakup,
but we're past that now, right?
We're... we're in the friend stage.
Right.
- Yeah.
So the ex meets the new guy. Heh.
How freaked out are you right now?
I feel a little threatened,
but I think I could take you.
Confident. Pfft. Sexy.
Damon.
I'm sorry. What's going on?
Focus. Go the bar, get her a Chardonnay.
- I hate Chardonnay.
- I know.
What are you doing?
I'll explain on the dance floor. May I?
Hello, gorgeous.
- What did you do to him?
- Oh, he's fine.
Just a little blood loss.
I think he may have an
iron deficiency problem.
Knock it off. Her mother's
life is on the line.
Hang on. Just so I'm clear.
All Caroline had to do
to get you to treat her
with a modicum of respect is
to stop paying attention to you.
- Is that how his works?
- Shut up, Enzo.
And did he really need 3 chains?
I mean, who is this guy, the hulk?
Well, I didn't restrain him.
No, but you let your sidekick Enzo do it
because what could go
wrong when you team up
with your sworn enemy?
Oh. That's brilliant.
Of course that's why she hates you.
That's how you worked her
into such a state in Savannah.
That's why she told you to go take a leap.
She hates you because she
doesn't hate you at all.
I'm sorry. Are you still talking?
She got a thing for you, mate.
Tell your mum I send my best.
Whatever he just said, it will
never be discussed again, ok?
Mm-hmm.
[Music playing]
- Why are you doing this?
- Why?
Well, because I'm an incredible dancer,
and it would be a shame
not to share my talent
with the world.
Oh. Don't worry. I didn't see you smile.
Miss Mystic Falls.
First time we ever danced.
Stefan stood you up...
Bloodlust issues, surprise, surprise...
So I stepped in.
You're trying to stir up memories.
This isn't a good idea.
I stepped in, sexy as hell,
and saved you from complete
and utter humiliation.
Of course, you were just
worried about Stefan,
but there was this moment, this one moment,
where everyone else fell away,
and it was just the two of us.
Look. I'm here with someone, Damon.
You can't just come
unannounced and ruin my night.
Come unannounced? What
are you talking about?
I literally went
through time and space
to be with you.
I know, but look.
Do you want me to feel guilty?
Because trust me, Damon. I do, ok?
I feel horrible, and I'm sorry,
but I don't... I don't
know what to tell you.
What do you want me to
say? I don't remember us.
I do, and no matter how much I missed you
or how much pain I was in,
I never would have erased
everything we ever had.
Even if I was drowning in grief,
I'd rather hang on to every moment
that I ever held you
or every laugh that I ever heard,
every shred of happiness that we ever had.
I would rather spend every moment in agony
than erase the memory of you.
I need some air.
Jo: So that seems to be going well.
Yeah. That's my fault.
I shouldn't have compelled her.
You shouldn't mix painkillers and booze.
Whatever you did for
Elena, that's her choice.
Remember that. No pun intended.
I am not on painkillers.
In fact, I feel awful, but I am enjoying
every miserable human moment of pain.
To being powerless and mundane.
Cheers.
Ahh. So I guess we are both
formerly supernatural beings.
Should we start a support group?
Well, technically, I relinquished my magic
and put it away for safekeeping.
I didn't know you could do that.
Let's just say I chose to remove myself
from a tragically dysfunctional family,
and I haven't regretted a moment of it.
Hey. Who let you in?
Oh. A radiologist I met at the gym.
So what's the story with Tyler?
It's a short story called
"mind your own business."
Liv, I'm not saying don't have fun, ok,
because that's why we're here,
but when the coven calls us home,
they don't care if we're in love or not.
You sound like dad, and
that's not a compliment.
Liv.
Have fun with your gym
fling. Leave me to mine.
Yes. Ok.
Where's the last piece?
Where is it?
This isn't happening.
Looking for this?
You stole the ascendant, naughty girl.
You weren't planning on using
and leaving me behind, were you?
You left a trail of blood in the driveway.
Figured where else would
you stop and play nurse?
Vados!
[Engine sputtering]
Aah!
Unh! Get off me!
I thought about taking the keys,
but that'd be like taking the cheese out
of a mousetrap, right, Bonnie?
Although, you know, fun fact.
Mice don't actually like cheese.
Isn't that great?
Shh, shh, shh.
So we have an hour until the eclipse.
It's time to go home, Bonnie.
[Music playing]
I want to remember.
Well, you're a day late
and a dollar short, huh?
I mean, I want to try.
Knowing that there's this
whole piece of my life missing,
it's... it's driving me crazy, ok?
So I have to at least try to get it back.
Yeah.
How are you supposed to do that?
I know there's nothing we
can do about the compulsion,
but maybe if we unwind
the memories backwards,
something might trigger something,
and maybe they'll all come back, right?
Yeah. Sure. Tell me what you want me to do.
Take me to the last place
I told you I loved you.
I brought you a present.
Ta-da! Ms. Cuddles!
Thought you might want to bring her along.
Thanks.
I know you think I'm a monster.
I mean, I did murder or heavily
maim most of my immediate family,
but after a long period of self-reflection,
I've come to the conclusion
that I could have handled my anger better.
You said you wanted to get out of here...
And I quote... "To give the rest
of the Gemini coven an excruciating death."
I didn't mean it.
Honestly, I would do anything
to get my family back,
and the thing I'm most scared of
is trying to figure out how
to live in the world again.
Sort of hoping you've been
a positive influence on me.
You're a good person, Bonnie.
You're brave, loyal, patient.
I want to be more like you.
[High-pitched voice] What do you say?
Friends?
[Kiss]
Let's just go home.
They're here.
[Gun cocks]
Mom?
Caroline, stop! The border.
You're bleeding? What'd you do to her?
I'm fine.
Ok. Let's do this. Let her go,
and you can have him.
Tripp first.
Caroline: Let her go, or I'll kill you.
Sweetheart, it's ok.
Stefan, let Tripp go.
He's across. Now let her go.
[Grunting]
Are you ok?
What's happening to me?
[Gagging]
Oh, my God.
What the hell did you do?
Stefan: Wasn't me.
Enzo must have turned him into a vampire
before we got there.
It's now or never.
[Chanting]
Just in case you thought
you'd try to go without me.
[Chanting]
So long, 1994.
What the hell's happening?
Keep going. Hurry.
- I can't.
- Keep going!
I can't. I've lost my magic.
What are you talking about?
You were just doing the spell.
Unh.
There's nothing there.
There's no magic.
It's so strange.
I wonder if I accidentally
put it somewhere.
Oh, I remember now. I
put it somewhere safe.
Where did you put your magic?
Do you remember saying you
wanted to be more like me...
Brave, loyal, patient?
You put it in the bear, didn't you?
Come on!
Where's the stupid bear, hmm?
Oh, it's gone. I guess
we're stuck here forever.
Sorry.
I don't remember being
here with you that night.
Ok.
What do you remember?
How are you rewired?
I remember that we had
to stop the travelers.
Yeah.
You had a plan, but you didn't tell
anyone what you were doing,
and the next thing I know, you're dead.
I heard that you drove
your car into the grill
and then blew yourself up so that you could
trigger some explosion.
There's just one little part of that story
that you're missing.
You got in the car with me.
What?!
I was all ready to go, and the door opens,
and you jump in the car and say,
"we're in this together,"
and you weren't taking no for an answer.
That was the moment I realized you were
the perfect girl for me because you were
just as crazy as I was.
Ok. Tell me more. Something happy.
Ok. Happy. Well, there
is a motel ice machine
in Denver that's got some stories.
What else?
Well, can't forget the
night of your graduation.
Well, I did, so...
Shame. Probably one of your best speeches.
You in your very
passionate and adorable way
told me you were in love with me,
and hell if you were
gonna apologize for it.
My favorite memory of us, oh,
one that I've relived a million
times over the last 4 months
is this summer night that we had
before you went off to college.
You wanted to show me this meteor shower,
so we drove out in the middle of nowhere,
and the moment those shooting
stars started to fall, rain,
lots of rain.
You were so sure it would clear,
and it was just easier to believe you,
and I took your hand...
[Music playing]
This isn't working. I'm sorry.
Hey. Maybe you just need
to try a little harder.
I am trying!
I get that we had an amazing life together,
and I know that I loved the fact
that you were reckless and probably
made me feel very free,
but now when I look
into your eyes, I just...
What?
What do you feel like?
I feel like...
Like I'm looking at a stranger
because I'm never gonna be
able to give you what you want,
because I just can't remember.
Hey. There are things you can't erase,
and you know that.
Hey.
Sorry.
Where are you going? Elena! Hey!
Elena!
[Thunder]
[Rain falling]
[Gagging]
Elena!
Hey!
What the hell are you doing?
90 more seconds, you'd be dead.
Hey.
I'm trying to undo the compulsion.
It's the only way.
No, no, no, no.
Hey. Listen.
I would give anything for you to remember,
but I'm not gonna risk your life.
It's the last thing I would ever do...
Even if you don't remember
that. Let's get you home.
This is totally unnecessary.
You hit your head.
You could have a concussion,
and I know better than to trust that
you're going to take yourself
for a checkup back home.
You can go now. We're fine.
Sweetheart, could you at
least just check and see
how long the wait is gonna be?
- Gladly.
- Ok.
I see she's still icing you out.
Yeah. Anyway, you want to help me fix that?
Sorry, Stefan. I'm her mother.
- I'm not allowed.
- Right.
- We'll be right outside, ok?
- Ok.
Let me see it.
Please don't ask my
mother for her opinions.
You heard that?
Yeah. I've got superhearing.
I hear everything.
Only when you listen.
[Sighs]
Why?
Why was I listening?
- Why do you have a thing for me?
- I don't.
Ok. Um...
Why did you have a thing for me?
We said that we would never
talk about this again, so just...
Look, Caroline, please just talk to me.
Tell me how, tell me why.
Please just make me understand
how it is that I missed it.
What kind of a stupid question is that?
Why did I have a thing for you?
I don't know, Stefan.
Maybe it's because I thought
you worth having a thing for,
because when I woke up as a vampire
you told me that I would get through it
and I did,
because when I watched Elena
move on with your brother
I couldn't imagine why she
would let anyone like you go,
because you were
practically my best friend,
because I trusted you.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry for not seeing
it, I'm sorry for not...
Feeling it back?
No. I didn't say that. I... I...
Look. I don't know what I felt.
You know, my head was all over the place,
but I am incredibly sorry for
the way that I treated you.
Yeah. Well...
I know what you felt, Stefan,
because even if just a little
tiny piece of you felt for me
what I was starting to feel for you
you wouldn't have walked away,
and I don't hate you for that.
I don't hate you for mourning your brother,
I don't hate you for being
the biggest jerk on the planet
while doing so,
and I accept your apology.
But you do still hate me.
Yes.
Yeah, I hate you
because if I don't hate you
for ruining our friendship,
then I have to hate myself for ruining it,
and I think that I
deserve better than that.
[Music playing]
I remembered something out there,
just bits and pieces, but, um...
There were these stars,
and then it started to rain.
When you became a vampire,
part of me was thrilled
because suddenly there was this possibility
I could have you in my life forever,
but then the other part
of me was devastated
because I realized you'd lost
the life that you wanted to have.
It started to rain, and
then what happened, Damon?
And since I've been gone,
you've gotten part of that life back.
You're thriving, you're happy.
Yeah, sure. Maybe you'd be happy
if we gave it another chance,
but the truth is is...
You're better off without me.
What are you talking about?
I died. You started over.
I need you to live your life.
Be happy.
I love you, Elena.
Enough to let you go.
It started to rain, and then what?
It got cold and muddy.
You were miserable, so
we got in the car and...
We drove home.
Ok.
Ohh.
I might have to rethink
this whole painkiller thing.
I need to get out of this
dress and order a pizza.
Ok.
[Groans]
[Cloth rustling]
Ouch.
This? Yeah I had an
accident when I was younger.
- I lost my spleen.
- Car accident?
Actually it was less an accident
and more like my brother tried
to gut me with a hunting knife.
Like I said, tragically
dysfunctional family.
Yeah.
Ha!
I just killed the mood, didn't I?
No, no. Let's just say,
uh, we both have complicated, tragic,
and dysfunctional histories.
Guess we're a match.
[Knock knock]
Hey.
You're still talking to me.
Sorry I ran out like that.
What's this?
So I finally got a look
at lady Whitmore's labs.
Turns out they sent her home
without doing the shoulder surgery
because the injury doesn't exist anymore.
Seems to have spontaneously healed itself,
and all this after meeting
your dead boyfriend tonight?
None of this adds up.
The only thing that's really clear
is that you're not just a liar,
but you're a liar with secrets,
so you can tell me the truth,
or I can figure this out on my own.
[Music playing]
[Sighs]
One for you, one for me.
Cheers, Horatio Fell.
[Thunder]
Come on. It's time to abandon ship.
No, no, no, wait.
Just give it a second.
It will clear up.
Promise me this is forever.
I promise.
[Music continues]
To optimism.
Bonnie.
You're still alive.